Hi everyone. I'm Obie Fernandez. Uh, and I'm
going to be talking to you today about some
of the awesome things we're doing at Shopify. Uh,
leveraging the power of claude and claude code as
part of uh, our massive in a way. I'll talk about
that in a second. Uh, first of all, I just want to
introduce myself. My name is Obie Fernandez. I'm
a principal engineer in our augmented engineering
group. I work on everything that has to do with
augmented engineering or in other words like using
AI to improve developer experience at Shopify. I'm
also the author of a pretty interesting book that
you might like called patterns of application
development using AI. So I hope that you look
that up uh if you get a chance. Uh today we're
going to be talking about the challenges of scale
at Shopify Engineering. We are a very uh fairly
large organization, probably one of the largest
Ruby on Rails uh shops in the world. Uh our main
application we've been working on for almost 20
years. Uh and has millions upon millions of lines
of code. It's probably about 5,000 uh repos uh in
our organization last time I checked. and we're
generating about uh half a million PRs a year
at last count which is a significant amount
of um stuff to take into account when you're
uh you know doing anything with AI uh in terms of
your context and whatnot. Um, our core challenge
is how do we maintain productivity or rather
that's what my my group focuses on and uh I'm here
to kind of tell you some of the solutions we've
developed and how those interact with uh cloud.
the the key really to understanding kind of
the point of what what I'm presenting is to
understand that there there's two very
very different ways of using AI uh one
which we've been immersed in throughout
this conference today are agentic tools
uh when we're talking about how to leverage AI
uh as assistants and tooling there's this agentic
approach which are ideal for scenarios
that require adaptive decisionmaking
uh iteration and autonomy, right? They shine when
the tasks that you're you're trying to accomplish
with AI help uh are exploratory or ambiguous
in some way and you're relying on the LM's
reasoning and judgment uh because your path to
the solution is not known in advance. It might
not be known in advance because it's a complex
domain that you're dealing with that has factors
that are changing all the time. It might be very
very complicated and just kind of beyond what you
know or it might be like something as simple as a
feature development where you're going to do some
exploratory work to figure out how to implement
that feature. Uh those kinds of use cases as
we've seen again and again today in the various
sessions are perfect for tools like cloud code.
um anything that involves ongoing adaptation uh
debugging and iteration perfectly fantastic to
give that to an agentic tool and see what it
can do. Um in contrast um structured workflow
orchestration including what we can do with this
open source tool that I'm going to present to you
in this uh presentation which we call roast
um are better for tasks that have predictable
well- definfined steps uh cases where you seek
uh consistency repeatability and clear oversight.
you want to leverage AI and these kind and
this kind of work for intelligent completion
of components of that bigger workflow. So far,
I don't think I'm saying anything that is super
exotic or or wild. It's really the difference
between non-deterministic and deterministic
kind of behavior. Um, and it turns out that
like peanut butter and chocolate, you know,
these make a great combination. Sometimes you want
one, sometimes you want the other. And examples
of what these structured workflows are great for
are things like migrating legacy code bases. So
for instance, going from Python 2 to Python 3,
uh from going whatever your current, you know,
JavaScript implementation is based on to whatever
the new flavor of the month is. uh or as is the
case uh with a lot of things that my team deals
with refactoring large systems where it isn't
really an exploratory task like we know what we
want to do. Maybe we're addressing performance,
maybe we're addressing technical debt that we
understand kind of what the basis is. So we
know that we want to go through a certain amount
of steps. uh specifically the kinds of things
that that we do at Shopify using roast uh which is
really what we extracted this open source library
out of started with automated testing generation
and test optimization. So we looked at our over
half a million tests associated with our main
monolith and said we would really like to address
some of the coverage gaps in this codebase. So how
do we go about doing that? Of course, one approach
would be to simply open up that project in cloud
code and say, "Hey, I want to address coverage
gaps in this place." However, in practice,
it really it's it's really helpful to break
down that problem in the way that you would do it
manually and say, "Okay, well, what would I do if
I was going to work on test coverage?" Well, first
of all, I need to know what the test coverage is.
If we know that every time we're going to do
a series of steps that calls for a structured
workflow. For instance, running the coverage tool,
running the test, you know, to generate the report
of what needs to be covered. So, taking a step
back for a second, we've been using Cloud Code
for a while. We were one of the early shops that
actually adopted it. As soon as it launched, there
was interest in using it. And as soon as people
started using it, we started seeing a lot of
excitement in our Slack, right? So, I copied some
of the earliest comments I could find there from
March, you know, from from some of our folks. And
I pulled this graph from from our AI proxy that
Cloud Code runs through. And I think it's actually
a pretty a fairly impressive amount of usage. We
have at peak now about 500 daily active users and
that number is growing rapidly. And as of lately,
we hit 250,000 requests per second at at peak,
which is is an impressive amount, I believe. Um,
and in fact, ROST itself, which is this open
source framework that I was telling you about,
is called ROS because it helps you set your
money on fire. Yeah, think about it. So, anyway,
what does it look like? I uh I let this video kind
of stay here at uh a workflow definition. So this
is a workflow orchestration tool. There's nothing
super super exotic about it. Uh probably the most
one of the most interesting things about it is
that it's implemented in Ruby, which is a bit
of an oddity in this world where everyone uses py
python and typescript unfortunately. Uh however,
you don't need to implement anything in Ruby
to use uh roast for your own things. This can
actually help you interle uh prompt oriented kind
of tasks with bash scripts or you know whatever
whatever you want to invoke. Um so anyway why did
why did we go through the trouble of writing roast
and open sourcing it on my team? Well the thing is
uh our illustrious CEO uh Toby Licki has instilled
throughout the years a culture of tinkering in the
company. So even without AI uh we have a culture
where people are constantly working on homegrown
projects little skunk works little research uh you
know things within their departments and this
is not only limited to engineering it's across
the board you know I've seen people in sales and
support and things like that working on their own
tooling AI exploded that so you know as soon as uh
you know vibe coding became a thing curs you know
uh different kinds of tools came about and
were available like cloud code and and all the
different kinds of you know chat completion. All
of a sudden everyone was coding across the company
and specifically when it came to anything that
looks like a structured workflow or essentially
a script that puts together a number of prompts
or chains them together. I think that there's
probably safe to say that there's hundreds of
different ways that this has been implemented
across your company. And if I see some of you
nodding like you if you work at big companies you
probably have seen this like constant reinventing
of the wheel. You know some people are using
um you know one frameworks you know some people
are using lang chain some people are just writing
their own scripts etc etc. That's cool and
all, but it's better, you know, if you start
identifying the common needs across the
organization and you you put something
together to to really help them out. So that's
where ROS came from. And I want to tell you about
the relationship with cloud code and roast because
it's a birectional thing which is really really
cool. So like I said earlier, you could try to get
cloud code to execute a workflow uh a predefined
workflow. You could set up commands. You could set
up a bunch of CloudMD files. All that's well and
good, and I'm not telling you, I'm not here to
tell you, hey, don't try to do that. It's just
that no matter how good the state-of-the-art
models get at following instructions,
they're still inherently non-deterministic. And
you have something else which is the accumulation
of entropy. Uh and what I mean by that is that at
every step of a given workflow that you just give
an agent to to work on independently, errors and
uh you know misdirection and uh lack of you know
problems with judgment mistakes add up right
I'm sure if you've done any amount of prompt
chaining you've seen this like basically something
goes slightly wrong that makes the next step work
a little bit worse or the model has to do more
work to recover. uh it's not ideal. What we're
finding is that interle non-deterministic kinds of
structured workflow with uh sorry nondeterministic
agentic workflows with uh deterministic kind of
structured workflows and scripts is actually the
perfect combination. So what I mean by that is
that you take a workflow, a big workflow like
let's say optimizing a test suite and you break
it down into component parts and you minimize
the amount of instructions that you have to
give the agent to work on at any given step.
That looks like giving claude code roast
workflows um on the on the one side. So
on the left side of the slide here, what I'm
describing is like basically you tell claude,
hey, I want to work on optimizing uh my tests,
but I have a workflow tool that handles the
grading. So go ahead and call roast test grade
with this file or this directory and then take
its recommendations and work on them. So that's
one way of using roast as a tool for cloud code.
On the other side, ROSE includes a coding agent
tool that you can add to your workflows in as
part of its configuration which wraps claude
code. So you could kick off a workflow in an
automated fashion that let's say grades a
test uh and as part of the steps in that
workflow you can kick off cloud code in SDK
mode and provide something that you want the
agent to work on but on a narrow narrower
scope than to giving it the whole thing.
I've already talked about test grading, but
to give you another example, um the the main
application that we use at Shopify, like I said
before, is a big Ruby on Rails monolith. Ruby
is a dynamic language that doesn't natively have
typing. So, we use an add-on typing system called
Sorbet. Sorbet is not something that is super
super wellknown by the models. certainly has a
little bit of knowledge of it, but the the kinds
of tools that you invoke when you're doing type
checking and preparation of type files and things
like that is not something that is let's call it
quote unquote intuitive to the models. very
very helpful to break anything up that has to
do with like type checking or imp improving the
application of types in our codebase into these
roast workflows where we actually interle calls
to the sorbet tools that are predefined like we're
always going to run the type checking in this way
with a command line and then we interle that with
giving the results of the type checking to claude
and saying hey uh please address the deficiencies
that we found in this manual step. This is not
a super compelling video. I didn't have a ton of
time to prepare this talk, but like basically um
if the video starts here, what you'll see is like
the result of running one of these workflows um
to generate tests. So, it gets stuck here running
coding agent. I'm talking to the uh cloud code
team about maybe giving us some ability to output
what the coding agent is doing. But we see that
it's generating tests. I'm actually flipping over
and running the test to verify that they run, or
rather to show you that they run, but this is kind
of what it looks like at scale. It's a bit messy.
I should add if you want to try roast, um, it is
a very early version. It does work. It has a cool
set of tools. It has cool features like being able
to save your your session every time you run a
workflow. If any of you have tried to do workflow
kinds of things, uh, one of the key benefits of
using a tool like roast is that for instance, if
you have a five-step workflow, you don't have to
run the first four steps over and over again just
to debug the fifth step. You can just go ahead and
replay from the fourth step afterwards and then,
you know, work on it. Big big timesaver. We
also do things like incorporate function uh tool
function caching. Uh a lot of times when you're
developing these workflows, you're kind of working
on the same data set. If you're only working in
an agentic tool, you kind of have to give it the
whole thing and let it run from the beginning
and do all the tool things that it's going to
do all the function calling. Uh if you're using a
tool like roast, you can do that and have all your
function to uh you know calls cached at the roast
level so that they just execute super super fast.
I mentioned before um but just to bring it home
we are using cloud SDK as a tool for roast.
So specifically the kinds of things that we're
using that for um is that the configured roast
workflow oneshots uh a code migration for instance
because it's kind of like we know exactly what we
want to do. We don't want to beat around the bush
or have to discuss what it is we're going to do
with Claude. So we're just going to go ahead and
do that just using regular chat completion style
uh prompting. And then once we have a starting
place, we hand that over to Claude using the SDK
command line and say, "Hey, uh, run the test
for this." And then if it's broken, fix it,
iterate on on on doing it. Again, these
are these are these are things that are
not necessarily that useful to the indiv,
you know, to the individual developer,
like as they're going about their day,
probably they're just going to use cloud code.
But if you're doing this at scale or as part of
repeatable processes or as part of reacting to
PRs or anything like that uh you know as part
of data pipelines becomes super super useful.
I want to leave some time for questions. So I'm
just going to move on a little bit uh faster. I
wanted to mention that uh from experience um
one of the things that's a little bit tricky
when you're using uh cloud code SDK is kind of
figuring out what tools you need. Um however an
option that doesn't I think get enough love or
get mentioned especially when you're prototyping
is you can just say dangerously skip permissions
which just kind of lets it do whatever it wants.
uh and you know when you're prototyping
and figuring out how you know how you're
going to use your coding agent that's often
very useful and as I was kind of giving some
initial versions of the this talk to my
colleagues they said hey would probably
be useful to put an example prompt of what it
looks like when you include a coding agent in
uh in your workflow. So uh I put an example
prompt in there. Uh use your code agent tool
function to raise the branch coverage level
of the following test above 90%. After each
modification run rake test with coverage p you
know path to the test etc. You get the picture.
So finally hopefully you've liked this
introduction. I know I know that maybe to
some of you this might seem a little bit boring
but to us kind of making that discovery that
interle these deterministic and non-deterministic
kinds of processes together uh and leveraging
the power of cloud code was actually a magical
com uh combination is taking off like wildfire
within Shopify um you know this is something
we just launched we've had it internally
uh within our development kind of environment for
test grading and optimization probably for five or
6 weeks now and we launched it as open source
I think two or 3 weeks ago and it's starting
to take off like wildfire at this point now that
people realize hey there's a standardized solution
uh also because of time pressure I wasn't able to
show you all the features of roast it actually has
a lot of cool things uh like just being able to
declare inline prompts within your workflows uh
being able to declare inline uh bash commands Uh,
and it has a lot of conventionoriented things. So,
if anyone raise your hand if you've ever used
Ruby on Rails or you like Ruby on Rails. Yay.
All right, we got some people in the house. So,
this I'm I'm a Rails guy. I wrote the book The
Rails way back in the day and I really like Ruby
on Rails and it's takes a convention oriented
approach. That's kind of what you get with Rast.
So it has things like the ability to define your
prompts and then put a output template alongside
it where you you know you're able to transform
the output using ERB. Very very Rails-like. So if
you like Ruby on Rails I think you'll like Rast.
Uh it looks like we have about four minutes for
questions. So if anyone wants to step up to the
mic, give you a chance. [Applause] Have you tried
agent generating Python code to engage agent?
Well, first of all, no because I
don't write Python in principle.
But the have I tried agent generated code to
invoke an agent? Correct. Yes. So basically
using Python uh either in your interpreter or
in code execution uh to orchestrate sub agents
um and through that do the same same things
as you do like migrations and test coverage
and whatnot. No. And if I understand the
the thrust of your question correctly,
I'm not I'm not sure that we w we would in the
context of of doing roast. So the direction that
we're going with roast is the introduction
of things that you would normally associate
with workflows. So the ability to put like
control flow, conditionals, branching, looping,
uh things like that which are kind of quality
of life if you're a workflow developer. What
makes it unique though is that this this is very
much written for the AI age and for LLMs. So for
instance, your conditionals uh allow you to put
in a prompt uh or a bash script or a step you know
like a fullfeatured let's call it a fullfeatured
prompt versus an inline prompt and the results of
invoking that prompt can be coerced into like for
instance a true or false or if it's in the context
of something that expects a collection to iterate
over the result of the prompt is coerced into a
list and then iterates over it. So, um, I know
that you asked about code generation. That's a
cool thing. I might actually have to think about
that and see if, uh, it fits into the picture,
but cool. Yeah. Thanks. All right. Thank
you very much. [Music] [Applause] [Music]